>> Brian Holt: I wanna take
this a little step further.
If you start getting into web development,
you'll notice that a lot of
things have a build step.
That can be really intimidating because
we haven't talked at all about how to
build something in JavaScript.
It's an entirely different thing and
its actually kind of difficult there's
an entire two-day course just on the most
popular bundler, which is called Webpack.
We're not talking about
Webpack today because again,
that's a two-day workshop and
I have like an hour.
[LAUGH] So
I wanna show you how to integrate these
libraries using a build step because
I think that's important today to be
a JavaScript developer, so let's do that.
The first thing that I need you to
do is I need you to install Node.js
if you have not already installed it.
If you click on this it'll take
you to the Node.js website,
you can either click 8.11 or
you can do 10.1, I believe I'm using 10.1.
Node is JavaScript on the server,
okay, so it's just running
Node from my command line.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's go back here, I already have it
installed but I'm gonna bring it up here.
I'm gonna get rid of that,
clear, let's see.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's actually just go here.
Welcome to the command line this is going
to be less scary than you think it is.
The command line is just really
a fancy finder [LAUGH] right, so
I can open my Finder here and most of us
are familiar with looking at this, right.
I have my downloads,
I have my applications,
I have my pictures and stuff like that.
If you come over here to my terminal,
if I hit ls is the same things,
right pictures in public and personal and
important and staff like that.
That's all the terminal is, it's just
interacting with your filesystem but
using letters and such.
So right now, we'll get a little bit
more into that in our next lesson but
for now we're gonna be messing with
Node and I'm gonna say nvm use 10,
I don't have it, okay, doesn't matter.
So it doesn't really matter what version
of Node as long as you're above 6,
you should be okay,
as long as that's happening, okay.
So now that you have Node,
we're gonna be using,
>> Brian Holt: Node to build our project,
so once you install Node it comes with a
thing called npm, which does not stand for
Node Package Manager, but it definitely
stands for Node Package Manager.
I don't know why they say that it does
not stand for Node Package Manager but
it's a package manager for Node,
so it's Node Package Manager.
I don't understand,
JavaScript's weird, okay.
So I need you to find your
project using the terminal,
mine is on my desktop, all right,
so I see it right there.
So I'm gonna say,
change directory cd into desktop.
>> Brian Holt: Okay so
now I'm inside desktop you can see that.
Yours won't looks like this I've setup
my terminal a little bit different but
whatever let's use
terminal.app cuz then you can
see.
>> Brian Holt: No it does look like that
as well, never mind so it doesn't matter.
So I am using iterm.app,
you can use Terminal.app if you're on Mac,
if you're on Windows, you can use
something like, actually CMD should work.
But beyond that I don't have Windows
setup, so I can't really show you, but
you should bring up CMD.
If you go to Start, Run you can type CMD
and then open the command prompt I believe
and if you're on Linux you should
definitely know where the terminal is or
as you should probably maybe
not use Linux, one or the two,
I'm kidding that's mean
anyone can use Linux.
Okay so I'm gonna go to desktop,
I'm on desktop if
I hit ls that means list everything
that's inside of this directory.
I found popdemo which is right there so
I'm gonna say cd popdemo and
now I'm in my popdemo directory, right.
Do we understand how I got here?
>> Brian Holt: Okay if I type clear that
just clears, so I can see better.
I'm gonna type npm install --global,
this is going to install a tool that
I can use called parcel, parcel
is a little tool that helps you bundle
your JavaScript application together.
So I'm gonna hit that,
it's gonna go out to the network,
it's going to download all
these JavaScript files,
it's gonna bundle it all together for
me so I can use the tool called parcel.
Parcel is a really, really awesome
thing let's go take a look at it.
There's a bunch of documentation for it,
it's really well made they'll walk
you through a bunch of the stuff.
Parcel will allow you to.
>> Brian Holt: Bundle all this stuff
together, right.
Ultimately, what my goal is here,
right now on this project, where am I?
This one, I'm loading from unpackage,
that pop motion library,
I wanna bundle it all together so
it all comes in one nicely tight little
bundle.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna wait for that to finish.
>> Brian Holt: Parcel's awesome,
if it's a tool that you use,
you should definitely donate to them.
>> Brian Holt: I should donate to them,
so now I have this thing called parcel.
It doesn't know it, help maybe?
Parcel.
>> Brian Holt: Which I didn't have this
before, right, this is a JavaScript
bundler, and I got that from MPM, right,
I told it go out to MPM grab this,
put it on my computer.
>> Brian Holt: So now what I'm gonna do,
unlock my computer here and
make sure I'm doing the right things.
>> Brian Holt: Come
down here to my project.
>> Brian Holt: So
I'm gonna go delete this script tag.
I'm going to come in, where's my project?
Code over here.
>> Brian Holt: And
I'll come in here to index and
delete this script tag, okay.
So now I'm not loading
off of unpackage anymore,
instead I'm gonna come here to
animation and right now I'm pulling all
this stuff off of.
>> Brian Holt: This so
let's refractor this so
that all of these have, whatever,
it's fine.
>> Brian Holt: I don't wanna pull this
off of popmotion anymore, what I want,
I'm gonna change window.popmotion to here.
Let's do this const popmotion =
require('popmotion').
>> Brian Holt: And
then I'll get rid of this and
I'll just say popmotion like that.
>> Brian Holt: So
require is saying hey I need this library,
go pull it in for me so I can use it,
okay, and then this right here is
pulling all those values out so
that's what this line is doing,
it's pulling them out of this object.
I could actually put this into one line
and put the required popmotion there but
I separated it out, so hopefully you
can see those are two separate steps.
Okay, and now I need to go get
popmotion so I can bundle it in here so
I'm gonna come back to my
command line really quick.
First thing I'm gonna say is npm init,
I to make this an npm project,
so npm init- y,
>> Brian Holt: And
it's gonna turn this to an npm project.
So init does,
is it makes it an npm project, and
dash y means just don't ask me any
questions, just make this work.
If you leave that dash y off, if it's
gonna ask you a bunch of questions like
what's the name of this,
how do you test this, what's your email,
what's your mother’s maiden name, that's
a joke it's not gonna ask you that one.
But it's gonna ask you a bunch of
questions that I don't really feel like
answering right now,
it's not the boss of me, okay.
So now I have this right
here package.json,
this is how you configure node projects.
So if I come in here I can look at
it JSON, we've seen that before,
JSON are JavaScript Object Notation,
right, so
it's just like a very bare bones
configuration so it's called popdemo.
It's version 1.0.0, blah, blah, blah it
was all generated automatically, okay.
So I wanna give it some dependencies, so
what I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna
come back and I'm gonna say, npm.
So go get this off of npm,
install popmotion.
So it's going to go off of npm, it's
going to go install popmotion for me so
I can start using it.
>> Brian Holt: And fairly quickly it
comes in it added four packages, because
popmotion depends on other packages, so it
has to go get all those packages as well.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Popmotion is
really into something that was on
the Internet or it's really into
something that's on your computer.
>> Brian Holt: On the Internet.
>> Speaker 2: Okay so just what if you
said like npm install cats.
>> Brian Holt: It would probably work,
let's do npm info cats because
I don't know what cats it is.
>> Brian Holt: So it's written by a lovely
fellow named Luciferous
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Newmanvon.
>> Brian Holt: So you would go to this url
to see what's there, I'm not gonna check.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: I don't trust Luciferous
but like, let's say, npm info right here
loldash, cuz this is one that I wrote.
So you can see up here.
>> Brian Holt: Brian Holt right there bt,
you can see there, all that stuff,
you can go to the website which is again
something that I wrote
>> Brian Holt: So
it's just something off of, like there's
a registry it's actually at npm.com.
Is it npm.com right, yeah,
Npmjs.com.
>> Brian Holt: So this is where it's
coming from, if I search for popmotion.
>> Brian Holt: You
can see this is actually what
we're downloading right here.
>> Brian Holt: So if I come here and
say Quick Start, that's probably
the easiest way to get there,
it says right here npm install popmotion.
>> Brian Holt: It
says dash dash save here with the newest
versions of npm, the dash dash says,
implied so
you don't have to worry about it.
This is called the flag for
those of you that are not familiar
with the command line and
this flag is not necessary any more.
>> Brian Holt: So
that's a good question, so
that's how I knew to do that.
But anytime I need to come in here and
install libraries that I can use in fact
you can see here it now, it's
automatically put this in here, popmotion.
Come back to my command line.
>> Brian Holt: You can like npm install
react, right, or npm install angular or
npm install all of those things.
Okay so now I have popmotion and
I can make this work, so
what I'm gonna say is that I'm
gonna say parcel index.html.
So I'm gonna point it to my default,
whatever happen,
index file for html right.
Parcel is going to read that HTML file to
figure out where all my JavaScript and
CSS is and then it's going to just make
this a tight little nice bundle for me.
So if I do that,
>> Brian Holt: It's
building my index.html.
>> Brian Holt: It's going and
getting all the popmotion stuff and
it built it in eight seconds, okay.
So now rather than going
like opening it with
like as a file I'm actually
running a local server now.
So if I click on this or
rather just copy and paste it and
put it into my browser, localhost:1234.
You can see here, it's working but it's
not downloading off of unpackage anymore,
it's not doing any of that stuff,
it's being bundled together,
all by Parcel.
>> Brian Holt: Does this make sense?
I'll talk about the local host
thing here in just a second but
does the bundling stuff make sense?
So this is in develop mode, and
this is absolutely wonderful now.
What's really cool about this, is how
every time that you made a change you have
to refresh the page, if I come in here and
make a change to my CSS, Parcel's watching
for changes and it'll automatically
update my stuff whenever I change it.
So if I change this to
now be lime green and
Save, I'm not going to refresh
the page I'm just gonna come over and
it just updates itself, which is really
nice it helps me go even faster.
That's called hot reload, or HMR, Hot
Module Refresh maybe, I don't remember too
many acronyms really neat though, right.
>> Brian Holt: So,
there's a bunch of
advantages to doing that.
Another thing you can do now
that I'm doing a Parcel,
I can make my another file called,
I'm in POPDEMO just like useless.js,
I don't know I'm struggling to be
creative at this point of the day.
And all I'm gonna do inside this
file is say console.log("this
is entirely a useless file").
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so it's another JavaScript
file in my same project.
If I come back over here and
open my command line or
my console, it's not being logged out,
right now, right.
It's not being a brought
into the project but
if I go into animation.js and
up here at the top and
I say const, it'll say require ./useless,
the .js part's implied.
>> Brian Holt: It's going
to run whatever is inside of useless, so
if I come back over here this is entirely
a useless file.
>> Brian Holt: So
you can actually bundle together
your own files this way,
you can have multiple files,
you couldn't do that before.
Require would not have worked before and
now it does,
cool.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: And that's what nodeJS does
for you?
>> Brian Holt: Notice what's powering
Parcel, so Parcel is the part
that's actually doing the bundling.
So Parcel is written in Node,
we're about to do Node ourselves,
so Node is just allowing you to execute
JavaScript outside of the browser.
I wanted to show you that this is the old
way of doing modules with JavaScript,
which is called Common JS,
not something you need to know.
There is a new way of doing modules,
which is called ES6 modules.
So I wanted to just show you both
ways because you'll see documentation
in both ways, what's cool about VS
code is it will refactor it for you.
So you see this little light
bulb right there, show fixes?
Say convert to ES6 modules, and
it just fixes everything for
you.
>> Brian Holt: That's import Popmotion
from Popmotion, where as before it was
saying require, right, it's different now.
This is the new way of doing it, in the
future you should probably do it this way.
The problem is that Node
doesn't understand,
Node inherently doesn't
understand import so
it has to go through a translation layer
before it hits Node but we'll get there.
Most browser code you'll see will
be using the new import way so
I wanted to show you both.